# House Price Prediction Project

This project aims to predict house prices using machine learning models. It includes data preprocessing, outlier detection, model training, and prediction tasks. The project is implemented in Python and uses popular machine learning libraries such as CatBoost, XGBoost, LightGBM, and scikit-learn.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before running the code, make sure you have the following prerequisites installed:

- Python (3.x recommended)
- `pip` package manager
- Required Python packages (install them using `pip install -r requirements.txt`):
  - pandas
  - scikit-learn
  - catboost
  - xgboost
  - lightgbm
  - click

### Project Structure

The project is organized as follows:

- `data_processing.py`: Data preprocessing script.
- `outliers_detection.py`: Outlier detection script.
- `train.py`: Model training script.
- `predict.py`: Prediction script.
- `Makefile`: Makefile for managing tasks.
- `input_data.csv`: Input data file (sample data).
- `trained_model`: Trained model file (generated by `train.py`).
- `predictions.csv`: Predictions file (generated by `predict.py`).
- `requirements.txt`: List of required Python packages.
- `README.md`: Project documentation.

### Usage

1. **Data Processing**: Preprocess the input data using the following command:

   ```
   python data_processing.py --input-file input_data.csv --output-file text_processed_data.csv
   ```

2. **Outlier Detection**: Detect and remove outliers using the following command:

   ```
   python outliers_detection.py --input-file text_processed_data.csv --output-file data_no_outliers.csv
   ```

3. **Model Training**: Train the machine learning model using the following command:

   ```
   python train.py --input-file data_no_outliers.csv --output-model trained_model
   ```

4. **Prediction**: Make predictions using the trained model with the following command:

   ```
   python predict.py --input-file input_data.csv --model-file trained_model --output-file predictions.csv
   ```

5. **Cleaning**: To clean up intermediate and output files, use the following command:

   ```
   make clean
   ```